# In-reactor-Medical-Isotopes-Production
Optimal Neutron Spectrum Dataset for In-reactor Medical Isotopes Production
These data are the paper data submitted by the authors along with their manuscript to Advanced Engineering Informatics.
Medical isotopes, essential for clinical diagnosis and therapy, are experiencing a global shortage. In-reactor irradiation is the mainstream production method for medical isotopes, but suffering from challenges of low efficiency and high costs. Theoretically, enhancing the production efficiency is feasible through neutron spectrum regulation. Nevertheless, the optimal neutron spectra under varying irradiation conditions remain elusive. We identify the optimal neutron spectra for in-reactor production of twenty medical isotopes (14C, 32P, 47Sc, 60Co, 64Cu, 67Cu, 89Sr, 90Y, 99Mo, 125I, 131I, 153Sm, 161Tb, 166Ho, 177Lu, 186Re, 188Re, 92Ir, 225Ac, 252Cf) under different irradiation times and flux levels, and build an optimal neutron spectrum dataset, which answers the questions “What is the optimal neutron spectrum for medical isotopes production?” and “What is the maximum efficiency of medical isotopes production” once and for all. This dataset can be directly referred to for determining the optimal neutron spectrum for producing these medical isotopes in a specific reactor, supporting spectrum optimization and irradiation channel construction, providing previously unknown insights and paving the way for maximizing the yield of medical isotopes. Furthermore, the methodology employed in building this database can be replicated for other isotopes. The program developed is available upon request (panqingquan@sjtu.edu.cn), enabling interested readers to construct their databases, thus contributing to the ongoing efforts to address the global shortage of medical isotopes.
